In the last section, we started up a new copy of the reddest container image.
Inside there we have a running copy of the Red Server and we now need to figure out how we can somehow
start up the red, essentially also inside of that container.
To do so, we're going to be making use of another Docker command.
So the Docker command we're going to use is Docker exec.
Exec is short for execute and we use it to execute an additional command inside of a container.
We're going to write docker exec.
We'll then put down i t dash it.
This little argument right here allows us to type input directly into the container.
We then provide the container ID and then the command that we want to execute inside of the container.
So let's try doing this right now and seeing what happens.
I'm going to first go back over to my terminal.
I'm going to verify that my reddest container is still running.
I can either look at it inside the running window.
Alternatively, I could run Docker PS and see.
Yep, I still have that reddest image still going.
So then to start up a second program inside the container, I'll run.
Docker Exec.
Oops.
Forgot one thing here.
We got to get the containers ID, we'll do Docker PS and there's the ID right there.
So I'll do Docker exec dash it, I'll paste in the ID and then the command that I want to execute inside
there is Redis CLI.
And when I do so, you'll see that I now get that a little bit more familiar looking command prompt
here and I can write out something like set my value five and get my value in it retrieves five.
So by using the exact command, we were able to start up a second running program inside of our container
and the dash it flag right here allowed us to enter in text on our keyboard and have it be sent into
that running container as a very quick exercise.
Let's try removing the flag there and seeing what happens.
I'm going to exit this by hitting control C on my keyboard and then I'll do Docker exec again.
But this time I'm going to leave off the IT flags.
So I'll do Docker exec the ID and then Redis CLI and you'll notice that this time around I just got
kicked directly back to my terminal.
I got kicked directly back because Red essentially was started up, but we did not get the ability to
enter in any text.
So when reticle was started up, but it very quickly realized, hey, I don't have any possibility of
getting any text input, it decided to just entirely close down and kick us back to our terminal.
Now, this idea behind kind of adding on this flag and adding in text here is actually something that's
rather important in the world of Docker.
So let's take a quick pause right here, and we're going to come back in the next section and kind of
expand upon what it right here means.
So I'll see you in just a minute.